List of Qualifying Examinations (QE)


The final examination of the 10+2 system, conducted by any recognized Central/ State Board, such as the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi; Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, New Delhi; etc.


Intermediate or two-year Pre-University examination conducted by a recognized Board/ University.


Final examination of the two-year course of the Joint Services Wing of the National Defence Academy.


Senior Secondary School Examination conducted by the National Institute of Open Schooling with a minimum of five subjects.


Any Public School/ Board/ University examination in India or any foreign country is recognized as equivalent to the 10+2 system by the Association of Indian Universities (AIU).


Higher Secondary Certificate Vocational Examination.


A Diploma recognized by AICTE or a State board of technical education of at least 3 years duration.


General Certificate Education (GCE) examination (London/Cambridge/Sri Lanka) at the Advanced (A) level.


High School Certificate Examination of the Cambridge University or International Baccalaureate Diploma of the International Baccalaureate Office, Geneva.


Candidates who have completed the Class 12 (or equivalent) examination outside India or from a Board not specified above should produce a certificate from the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) to the effect that the examination they have passed is equivalent to the Class 12 Examination.


In case the Class 12 Examination is not a public examination, the candidate must have passed at least one public (Board or Pre-University) examination earlier.


Year of Appearance in Qualifying Examination


Only those candidates who have passed the Class 12/equivalent examination in 2021, 2022, or those who are appearing in Class 12/equivalent examination in 2023, are eligible to appear in JEE (Main) – 2023.


Candidates who passed the Class 12/equivalent examination in 2020 or before as well as those who will appear in such examination in 2024 or later are not eligible to appear in JEE (Main) – 2023.


State of Eligibility



State code of eligibility means the code of the State from where the candidate has passed Class 12 (or equivalent) qualifying examination by virtue of which the candidate becomes eligible to appear in JEE (Main) – 2023. It is important to note that the State code of eligibility does NOT depend upon the native place or the place of residence of the candidate. For example, if a candidate appears for the Class 12 (or equivalent) qualifying examination from an Institution situated in New Delhi and is a resident of Noida, Uttar Pradesh,  then the candidate’s State code of eligibility will be that of Delhi and NOT that of Uttar Pradesh.

If a candidate has passed the Class 12 (or equivalent) qualifying examination from one State but appeared for improvement from another State, the candidate’s State code of eligibility will be from where the candidate first passed the Class 12 (or equivalent) examination and NOT the State from where the candidate has appeared for improvement.

Candidate passed/appearing for Class 12 from NIOS should select the State of Eligibility according to the State in which the study Centre is located.

For Indian nationals passing the Class 12 (or equivalent) examination from Nepal/Bhutan, the State code of eligibility will be determined based on a permanent address in India as given in the passport of the candidate.

The State code of eligibility of OCI passing Class 12 (or equivalent) examination in India is at par with Indian nationals. However, OCI passing the Class 12 (or equivalent) examination from an institution abroad are eligible for Other State quota seats or All India quota seats (but NOT for Home State quota seats) in all NITs, IIITs and Other-CFTIs.